1) What is Xcode?

Ans) Xcode is an IDE or Integrated Development Environment for macOS containing a suite of software development tools developed by Apple for developing iOS, macOS, watchOS, iPadOS and tvOS software.

2) How to add frameworks in an Xcode project ?

Ans) a) Select project from the project navigator.
	b) Select the target for wherever you wanna add frameworks from the project settings editor.
	c) Select “Build Phases” tab and click the small triangle next to “Link Binary with Libraries” to view all of the frameworks in our application.
	d) Click the “+” below the list of frameworks to add one. 

3) What is the difference between Xcode, Objective C and Cocoa ?

Ans) Objective-C is a programming language, it’s just a description of what valid Objective-C programs look like and what they mean. If I have a source code listing written in Objective-C, I’ll need an interpreter or compiler to put the listing to work.

Xcode is an IDE, and Integrated Development Environment for developing software for iOS, macOS, tvOS, watchOS.

Writing iOS or OS X apps from scratch each time would be very time-consuming, so that’s why Apple has provided us with a good set of libraries. These libraries are simply a huge amount of source code written by Apple, and this source code takes care of most things that apps have in common. These libraries are called Cocoa.

4) What’s the shortcut to open the “Code Snippet Library” in Xcode ?

Ans) control + option + command + 1

5) What are the build phases available in Xcode?

Ans) The build process goes through a bunch of phases which are referred to as the build phases in Xcode. The four phases are as follows: 

1. Dependencies: This is the case where multiple targets are dependent on each other so we have to specify the dependencies if any
2. Compile Sources: 
3. Link Binary with Libraries: This is to add frameworks and libraries
4. Copy Bundle Resources: This option as the name suggests is for copying our bundle’s resources

6) Explain how an app delegate is declared in an Xcode Project.

Ans) An app delegate is defined as a sub-class of UIResponder by Xcode project templates.

7) Explain how you define variables in Swift.

Ans) We define variables in Swift as follows: 
	
	a) var someVar = 10
	b) let someOtherVar: String = "Some Random String" // type annotation isn't necessary if we're already providing a
	value to the variable because of Swift's type inference

In (a) we’re defining an someVar of type Integer and it is mutable 
In (b) we’re defining someOtherVar of type String which is a constant and immutable

8) What is an Interface Builder?

Ans) The Interface Builder editor within Xcode makes it simple to design a complete user interface without writing code, simply dragging and dropping items such as buttons, labels, text fields, etc. onto the design canvas creates a fully functioning user interface.

9) List devices and resolutions, screen size has iOS as their OS.

Ans) 1. iPhone 4,4s- 640 X 960- 3.5” 
2. iPhone 5s, 5c, 5, SE - 640 X 1136- 4”
3. iPhone 8,7,6s,6 - 750 X 1334 - 4.7” 
4.iPhone 8+, 6+,6s+, 7+ - 1242 X 2208 - 5.5” 
5.iPhone 11,XR - 828 X 1792 - 6.1” 
6.iPhone 11 pro,X,XS - 1125 X 2436 - 5,8” 
7.iPhone 11 pro max,XS max - 1242 X 2688 - 6.5” 
8. iPad Air - 1536 x 2048 - 9.7” 
9.iPad Pro - 2048 x 2732 - 12.9” 
10.iPad pro - 1668 x 2388 - 11” 
11.iPad pro(1st gen) - 1668 x 2224 - 10.5” 
12. iPad mini - 1536 x 2048 - 7.9 
